---
title: "Publications"
description: "Peer-review papers"
---
### Peer-review papers:

<p>  [44]   Yu-Sheng Sun, Diego Melgar, <b>Ruiz-Angulo, Angel</b>, Athanassios Ganas, Tuncay Taymaz, Brendan Crowell, Xiaohua Xu, Varvara Tsironi, Ilektra Karasante, Seda Yolsal-Çevikbilen, et al. The 2020 mw 7.0 samos (eastern aegean sea) earthquake: joint source inversion of multi-type data, and tsunami modeling. Geophysical Journal International, page ggae082, 2024.</p>
<p> [43] Charly de Marez, <b>Ruiz-Angulo, Angel</b>, and Mathieu Le Corre. Structure of the bottom boundary current south of iceland and spreading of deep waters by submesoscale pro- cesses. Geophysical Research Letters, 2024.</p>
<p> [42] Claudia Inés Rivera-Cárdenas, Oscar E. Jurado, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, and Josué Arel- lano. Mobile mini-doas measurements of the outflow of nitrogen dioxide from the toluca valley metropolitan area, mexico. Renewable energy, biomass amp; sustainability, 6(1):1–9, January 2024.<p> 
<p> [41] Erick R. Olvera-Prado, Rosario Romero-Centeno, Jorge Zavala-Hidalgo, Efraín Moreles, and Ruiz-Angulo, Angel. Contribution of the wind, loop current eddies, and topogra- phy to the circulation in the southern gulf of mexico. Ocean Dynamics, 2023.<p> 
<p> [40] Sean R. Santellanes, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, and Diego Melgar. Tsunami waveform stack- ing and complex tsunami forcings from the hunga-tonga eruption. Pure and Applied Geo- physics, dec 2022.<p>
<p> [39] Alejandra García-Madrigal, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, and Steffen Mischke. Intertidal ostra- coda from fossvogur and kópavogur bays (SW iceland): Diversity and distribution. Jour- nal of Sea Research, 190:102303, dec 2022. <p>
<p> [38] Andrea Burgos-Cuevas, Adolfo Magaldi, David K. Adams, Michel Grutter, Jorge L. Gar- cía Franco, and Angel Ruiz-Angulo. Boundary layer height characteristics in mexico city from two remote sensing techniques. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, nov 2022. <p> 
<p> [37] AndreaBurgos-Cuevas, AngelRuiz-Angulo, CarlosAlbertoPalaciosMorales, KarinaRamos Musalem, and Cruz Daniel García Molina. Experimental downslope gravity currents over a synthetic topography. ATMÓSFERA, aug 2022. <p>
<p> [36] Diego Melgar, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, Brendan W. Crowell, Eric J. Fielding, and Ericka A. Solano-Hernandez. The Mechanisms of Tsunami Amplification and the Earthquake Source of the 2021 M 7 Acapulco, Mexico, Earthquake. Bulletin of the Seismological Society of Amer- ica, 09 2022. <p>
<p> [35] JGC Pérez, E Pallàs-Sanz, M Tenreiro, T Meunier, Julien Jouanno, and Ruiz-Angulo, A. Overturning instabilities across a warm core ring from glider observations. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 127(4):e2021JC017527, 2022. <p>
<p> [34] Mathieu Gentil, France Floc’h, Thomas Meunier, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, Gildas Roudaut, Yannick Perrot, and Anne Lebourges-Dhaussy. Internal solitary waves on the nw african shelf: A heuristic approach to localize diapycnal mixing hotspots. Continental Shelf Re- search, page 104492, 2021. <p>
<p> [33] Thomas Meunier, Enric Pallás Sanz, Charly de Marez, Juan Pérez, Miguel Tenreiro, Ruiz Angulo, Angel, and Amy Bower. The dynamical structure of a warm core ring as inferred from glider observations and along-track altimetry. Remote Sensing, 13(13):2456, 2021. <p>
32. A. Burgos-Cuevas, D. K. Adams, J. L. Garcia-Franco, and A. Ruiz-Angulo. A Seasonal Climatology of the Mexico City Atmospheric Boundary Layer. Boundary-Layer Meteorol- ogy, pages 1–24, 2021
31. Fenix Garcia-Tigreros, Mihai Leonte, Carolyn D. Ruppel, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, Dong Joo Joung, Benjamin Young, and John D. Kessler. Estimating the Impact of Seep Methane Ox- idation on Ocean pH and Dissolved Inorganic Radiocarbon Along the U.S. Mid-Atlantic Bight. Journal of Geophysical Research: Biogeosciences, 126(1), jan 2021
30. EfraínMoreles,JorgeZavala-Hidalgo,BenjamínMartínez-López,andAngelRuiz-Angulo. Influence of stratification and Yucatan Current transport on the Loop Current Eddy shed- ding process. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, nov 2020
29. Diego Melgar, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, Xyoli Pérez-Campos, Brendan W Crowell, Xiaohua Xu, Enrique Cabral-Cano, Michael R Brudzinski, and Luis Rodriguez-Abreu. Energetic Rupture and Tsunamigenesis during the 2020 Mw 7.4 La Crucecita, Mexico Earthquake. Seimological Research Letters, 10 2020
28. Mihai Leonte, Carolyn D Ruppel, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, and John D Kessler. Surface Methane Concentrations Along the Mid-Atlantic Bight Driven by Aerobic Subsurface Production Rather Than Seafloor Gas Seeps. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 125(5), 2020
27. Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, Carolyn D. Ruppel, Gerald Hatcher, and John D. Kessler. Current velocities as a function of depth measured by lowered ADCP, LADCP, on the research vessel Hugh R. Sharp in the Mid-Atlantic Bight from 2017-08-26 to 2017-09-03 (NCEI Accession 0209236). NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information, Dataset, 2020
26. Thomas Meunier, Julio Sheinbaum, Enric Pallàs-Sanz, Miguel Tenreiro, José Ochoa, An- gel Ruiz-Angulo, Xavier Carton, and Charly de Marez. Heat Content Anomaly and Decay of Warm-Core Rings: the Case of the Gulf of Mexico. Geophysical Research Letters, 47(3), feb 2020
25. ErikaLópez-Espinoza,Ruiz-Angulo,Angel,JorgeZavala-Hidalgo,RosarioRomero-Centeno, and Josefina Escamilla-Salazar. Impacts of the Desiccated Lake System on Precipitation
in the Basin of Mexico City. Atmosphere, 10(10):628, 2019

24. Thomas Meunier, Enric Pallàs-Sanz Sanz, Miguel Tenreiro, José Ochoa, Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, and Christian Buckingham. Observations of Layering under a Warm-Core Ring in the Gulf of Mexico. Journal of Physical Oceanography, 49(12):3145–3162, 2019
23. Ruiz-Angulo,A.,K.Jónsdóttir,R.H.Thrastarson,B.Halldorsson,V.Drouin,Grímsdóttir H., and S. Jónsson. Preliminary simulations for tsunami hazard in connection with a ma- jor earthquake on the Húsavík-Flatey fault. Proceedings to the Northquake 2019 workshop, Húsavík Academic Centre, pages 54–60, 2019
22. Angel Ruiz-Angulo, Shahrzad Roshankhah, and Melany L. Hunt. Surface deformation and rebound for normal single-particle collisions in a surrounding fluid. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 871:1044–1066, jun 2019
21. Ruiz-Angulo, Angel, Shahrzad Roshankhah, and Melany L. Hunt. Coefficient of restitu- tion and dimensions of surface deformations for particle-wall collisions in various fluids: Dataset. CaltechDATA, 2018
20. Diego Melgar, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, Emmanuel Soliman Garcia, Marina Manea, Vlad. C. Manea, Xiaohua Xu, M. Teresa Ramirez-Herrera, Jorge Zavala-Hidalgo, Jianghui Geng, Nestor Corona, Xyoli Pérez-Campos, Enrique Cabral-Cano, and Leonardo Ramirez-Guzmán. Deep embrittlement and complete rupture of the lithosphere during the Mw 8.2 Tehuan- tepec earthquake. Nature Geoscience, 11(12):955–960, oct 2018
19. Diego Melgar and Angel Ruiz-Angulo. Long-Lived Tsunami Edge Waves and Shelf Resonance From the M8.2 Tehuantepec Earthquake. Geophysical Research Letters, nov 2018
18. Vala Hjörleifsdóttir, H. S. Sánchez-Reyes, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, Maria Teresa Ramírez- Herrera, Rocio Castillo-Aja, Shri Krishna Singh, and Chen Ji. Was the 9 October 1995 Mw 8 Jalisco, Mexico, Earthquake a Near-Trench Event? Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 123(10):8907–8925, oct 2018
17. T.Meunier,E.Pallás-Sanz,M.Tenreiro,E.Portela,J.Ochoa,A.Ruiz-Angulo,andS.Cusí. The Vertical Structure of a Loop Current Eddy. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 123(9):6070–6090, sep 2018
16. ThomasMeunier,M.Tenreiro,EnricPallàs-Sanz,JoseOchoa,AngelRuiz-Angulo,Esther Portela, Simò Cusí, Pierre Damien, and Xavier Carton. Intrathermocline Eddies Embed- ded Within an Anticyclonic Vortex Ring. Geophysical Research Letters, 45(15):7624–7633, aug 2018
15. Esther Portela, M. Tenreiro, Enric Pallàs-Sanz, Thomas Meunier, Angel Ruiz-Angulo, Rosmery Sosa-Gutiérrez, and Simó Cusí. Hydrography of the Central and Western Gulf of Mexico. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 123(8):5134–5149, aug 2018
14. M.T. Ramírez-Herrera, N. Corona, Ruiz-Angulo, A., D. Melgar, and J. Zavala-Hidalgo. The 8 September 2017 Tsunami Triggered by the Mw8.2 Intraplate Earthquake, Chiapas, Mexico. Pure and Applied Geophysics, 175(1):25–34, 2018
13. B. Adriano, Y. Fujii, S. Koshimura, E. Mas, Ruiz-Angulo, A., and M. Estrada. Tsunami Source Inversion Using Tide Gauge and DART Tsunami Waveforms of the 2017 Mw8.2 Mexico Earthquake. Pure and Applied Geophysics, 175(1):35–48, 2018
12. J.L. García-Franco, W. Stremme, A. Bezanilla, Ruiz-Angulo, A., and M. Grutter. Vari- ability of the Mixed-Layer Height Over Mexico City. Boundary-Layer Meteorology, pages 1–15, 2018
11. NobuhitoMori,ArioMuhammad,KatsuichiroGoda,TomohiroYasuda,andRuiz-Angulo, Angel. Probabilistic tsunami hazard analysis of the pacific coast of Mexico: Case study based on the 1995 Colima earthquake tsunami. Frontiers in Built Environment, 3:34, 2017

10. L. Díaz-Damacillo, Ruiz-Angulo, A., and R. Zenit. Drift by air bubbles crossing an inter- face of a stratified medium at moderate Reynolds number. International Journal of Multi- phase Flow, 85:258–266, 2016
9. Ruiz-Angulo, A. and J. Zavala-Hidalgo. Internal wave observations in the Petacalco canyon, México. Environmental Science and Engineering (Subseries: Environmental Science), pages 203–213, 2016
8. Ruiz-Angulo, A. and E.D. López-Espinoza. Estimation of the thermal response of the lake basin of the Valley of Mexico in the 16th century: A numerical experiment. Boletin de la Sociedad Geologica Mexicana, 67(2):215–225, 2015
7. A.M. Thurnherr, E. Kunze, J.M. Toole, L. St. Laurent, K.J. Richards, and Ruiz-Angulo, A. Vertical kinetic energy and turbulent dissipation in the ocean. Geophysical Research Letters, 42(18):7639–7647, 2015
6. Ruiz-Angulo, A. Some aspects of turbulence role in oceanic currents. Environmental Science and Engineering (Subseries: Environmental Science), Part F1:179–187, 2015
5. J.R. Pacheco, Ruiz-Angulo, A., R. Zenit, and R. Verzicco. Fluid velocity fluctuations in a collision of a sphere with a wall. Physics of Fluids, 23(6), 2011
4. Ruiz-Angulo, A. and M.L. Hunt. Measurements of the coefficient of restitution for par- ticle collisions with ductile surfaces in a liquid. Granular Matter, 12(2):185–191, 2010
3. N.M. Vriend, M.L. Hunt, R.W. Clayton, C.E. Brennen, K.S. Brantley, and Ruiz-Angulo, A. Reply to comment by B. Andreotti et al. on "Solving the mystery of booming sand dunes". Geophysical Research Letters, 35(8), 2008
2. N.M. Vriend, M.L. Hunt, R.W. Clayton, C.E. Brennen, K.S. Brantley, and Ruiz-Angulo, A. Solving the mystery of booming sand dunes. Geophysical Research Letters, 34(16), 2007 
1. Ruiz-Angulo, A. and M.L. Hunt. Surface deformation in a liquid environment resultingfrom single-particle collisions. AIChE Annual Meeting, Conference Proceedings, 2006
